README.md, before:

# Scenario Execution

[![Super-Linter](https://github.com/IntelLabs/Scenario_Execution/actions/workflows/scan.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/marketplace/actions/super-linter)
[![OpenSSF Scorecard](https://api.scorecard.dev/projects/github.com/IntelLabs/scenario_execution/badge)](https://scorecard.dev/viewer/?uri=github.com/IntelLabs/scenario_execution)

Scenario execution is a backend- and middleware-agnostic library written in Python based on the generic scenario description language [OpenSCENARIO 2](https://www.asam.net/static_downloads/public/asam-openscenario/2.0.0/welcome.html) and [pytrees](https://py-trees.readthedocs.io/en/devel/).
It reads a scenario definition from a file and then executes it, reusing available checks and actions. It is easily extendable through a library mechanism.
This separation of the scenario definition from implementation massively reduces the manual efforts of scenario creation.

To give an impression of the functionality of scenario execution, the following animation shows an example scenario with a turtlebot-like robot in simulation using [Nav2](https://github.com/ros-planning/navigation2) and [ROS](https://ros.org/) as middleware to navigate towards a specified navigation goal in a simulated warehouse environment.
Once the robot reaches a reference position a box is spawned in front of the robot as an unmapped static obstacle that needs to be avoided.
Upon arrival of the goal position, the scenario ends and the simulation gets cleaned up.

![scenario execution in action](docs/images/scenario.gif "in action")

## Documentation

Please find the documentation [here](https://intellabs.github.io/scenario_execution).

## Setup

### Installation from source as ROS 2 workspace

Clone this repository, update its submodules by running:

```bash
git submodule update --init
```

install the necessary dependencies:

```bash
rosdep install  --from-paths . --ignore-src
pip3 install -r requirements.txt
```

and build it

```bash
colcon build
```

## How to run

First, build the packages:

```bash
colcon build
source install/setup.bash
```

To launch a scenario with ROS2:

```bash
ros2 launch scenario_execution_ros scenario_launch.py scenario:=examples/example_scenario/hello_world.osc live_tree:=True
```

Commit message:

update README and index.rst with links to the paper

README.md, after:

# Scenario Execution

[![Super-Linter](https://github.com/IntelLabs/Scenario_Execution/actions/workflows/scan.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/marketplace/actions/super-linter)
[![OpenSSF Scorecard](https://api.scorecard.dev/projects/github.com/IntelLabs/scenario_execution/badge)](https://scorecard.dev/viewer/?uri=github.com/IntelLabs/scenario_execution)

Scenario execution is a backend- and middleware-agnostic library written in Python based on the generic scenario description language [OpenSCENARIO 2](https://www.asam.net/static_downloads/public/asam-openscenario/2.0.0/welcome.html) and [pytrees](https://py-trees.readthedocs.io/en/devel/).
It reads a scenario definition from a file and then executes it, reusing available checks and actions. It is easily extendable through a library mechanism.
This separation of the scenario definition from implementation massively reduces the manual efforts of scenario creation.

To give an impression of the functionality of scenario execution, the following animation shows an example scenario with a turtlebot-like robot in simulation using [Nav2](https://github.com/ros-planning/navigation2) and [ROS](https://ros.org/) as middleware to navigate towards a specified navigation goal in a simulated warehouse environment.
Once the robot reaches a reference position a box is spawned in front of the robot as an unmapped static obstacle that needs to be avoided.
Upon arrival of the goal position, the scenario ends and the simulation gets cleaned up.

![scenario execution in action](docs/images/scenario.gif "in action")

## Documentation

Please find the documentation [here](https://intellabs.github.io/scenario_execution).

## How to cite

If you use Scenario Execution for Robotics in your scientific work, please cite our paper [Scenario Execution for Robotics: A generic, backend-agnostic library for running reproducible robotics experiments and tests]{https://arxiv.org/pdf/2409.07080}

```
@Article{Pasch2024,
  author = {Pasch Frederik and Mirus, Florian and Zhang, Yongzhou and Scholl, Kay-Ulrich},
  title = {Scenario Execution for Robotics: A generic, backend-agnostic library for running reproducible robotics experiments and tests},
  journal = {Computing Research Repository (CoRR)},
  year = {2024},
  eprint = {2409.07080},
  archivePrefix = {arXiv},
  primaryClass = {cs.RO},
  url = {https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.07080},
}
```

## Setup

### Installation from source as ROS 2 workspace

Clone this repository, update its submodules by running:

```bash
git submodule update --init
```

install the necessary dependencies:

```bash
rosdep install  --from-paths . --ignore-src
pip3 install -r requirements.txt
```

and build it

```bash
colcon build
```

## How to run

First, build the packages:

```bash
colcon build
source install/setup.bash
```

To launch a scenario with ROS2:

```bash
ros2 launch scenario_execution_ros scenario_launch.py scenario:=examples/example_scenario/hello_world.osc live_tree:=True
```
